**ranked-model** is modern row sorting library built for Rails 3.  It uses ARel aggressivly and is better optimized than most other libraries.

Installation
------------

To install ranked-model, just add it to your `Gemfile`:

    gem 'ranked-model'
    
    # Or pin ranked-model to git
    # gem 'ranked-model',
    #   :git => 'git@github.com:harvesthq/ranked-model.git'

Then use `bundle install` to update your `Gemfile.lock`.

Simple Use
----------

Use of ranked-model is straight ahead.  Get some ducks:

    class Duck < ActiveRecord::Base
    end

Put your ducks in a row:

    class Duck < ActiveRecord::Base
    
      include RankedModel
      ranks :row_order
    
    end

This simple example assumes an integer column called `row_order`.  To order Ducks by this order:

    Duck.rank(:row_order).all

The ranking integers stored in the `raw_order` column will be big and spaced apart.  When you
implement a sorting UI, just update the resource with the position instead:

    @duck.update_attribute :row_order_position, 0  # or 1, 2, 37. :first and :last are also valid

So using a normal json controller where `@duck.attributes = params[:duck]; @duck.save`, JS can
look pretty elegant:

    $.ajax({
      type: 'PUT',
      url: '/ducks',
      dataType: 'json',
      data: { duck: { row_order_position: 0 } },  // or whatever your new position is
    });

Complex Use
-----------

The `ranks` method takes serveral arguments:

    class Duck < ActiveRecord::Base
    
      include RankedModel
    
      ranks :row_order,           # Name this ranker, used with rank()
        :column => :sort_order    # Override the default column, which defaults to the name
      
      belongs_to :pond
      ranks :swimming_order,
        :with_same => :pond_id    # Ducks belong_to Ponds, make the ranker scoped to one pond
      
      scope :walking, where(:walking => true )
      ranks :walking_order,
        :scope => :walking        # Narrow this ranker to a scope
    
    end

When you make a query, add the rank:

    Duck.rank(:row_order)
    
    Pond.first.ducks.rank(:swimming_order)
    
    Duck.walking.rank(:walking)

Internals
---------

This libarary is written using ARel from the ground-up.  This leaves the code much cleaner
than many implementations.  ranked-model is also optimized to write to the database as little
as possible: ranks are stored as a number between 0 and 65534 (just below MEDIUMINT in MySQL).
When an item is given a new position, it assigns itself a rank number between two neighbors.
This allows several movements of items before no digits are available between to neighbors.  When
this occurs, ranked-model will rebalance the distribution of rank numbers across all memebers
of the ranked group.

Contributing
------------

Fork, clone, write a test, write some code, commit, push, send a pull request.  Github FTW!

This project was open-sourced by "Harvest":http://getharvest.com/.  "We're hiring!":http://www.getharvest.com/careers